♪ ♪
[eerie keyboard music playing]
[tina]
louise belcher,
The myth, the legend,
the fourth grader.
And just possibly,
the best archer in the world?
I first encountered her online,
Performing incredible
trick shots,
And I was like, "whoa."
[yelps]
[tina]
with millions of views
and a rapidly growing fan base,
This internet hotshot
is right on target
To become the most famous archer
on the planet.
In her most-watched video
by far, she performs
This near-miracle of a shot,
which she calls
"the off-the-wall
flipparoo how-do-you-do."
Oh, wow.
[tina]
but for many of us captivated
By her amazing talent,
The question remains:
"who is louise belcher,
And how is she so good?"
which is actually two questions.
Louise works here,
with her parents,
In this dingy diner
in a shabby seaside town.
Our documentary crew--
who is unrelated to her
In any way
because she is an only child--
Visited her here,
to see firsthand
How louise is able to pull off
her incredible shots,
And to learn more about
the woman behind the bow.
Or bow-hind, um, if you will.
Before I was a world-class
archer-- not my words,
Just repeating what I see
in the comments on my videos.
Anyway, before all that,
I was, and still am,
just a girl whose family runs
A weird-smelling
burger restaurant.
[tina] [sniffs] yeah, I'm
getting that. Is that normal?
It's normal,
but it's not on purpose.
But yeah,
even though now I'm famous
And people everywhere envy me,
I lead a humble life.
I go to school, I work here,
I refill ketchups and mustards.
I don't mind the ketchups,
but I'm not a mustard person.
And I don't respect people
who are.
-[gags]
-so interesting.
Anyway, back to archery.
How'd you get into it?
My mom and dad bought me
an archery set as a present.
It's kind of the best thing
they've ever done for me.
They finally figured out
how to be good parents,
And I'm proud of them for that.
We told her, "please never
shoot it in the apartment,
Or the restaurant."
I-I don't know why we aren't
enforcing that rule.
I think it's fun.
I like a little indoor
restaurant archery.
That's our thing now.
-And burgers. Also, burgers.
-Mm.
[tina] so how long have you been
archery-ing now?
Oh, gosh. Huh.
Ba-ba-ba, hmm.
A month, at least?
And you're already so good. Wow.
Wait, gene, let me give you
another "wow."
Wow. Okay, yeah,
let's use that one.
That's for the documentary
about this documentary.
Everyone's doing those now.
It's called a "double-doc."
Or a "tur-doc-en."
[gene]
I call it a "stalk-u-
docu-rockumentary"
For reasons that will
become clear when I release
My rock-opera podcast about
the making of this doc.
Have I properly
introduced my bow?
-This is greta gar-bow.
-[tina] yes, you have
Introduced us to greta.
A few times.
-We've got enough of that.
-Do you want me to do
-A cool slow-motion walk again?
-No, I think we're good.
You know we actually do
the slow-mo in editing.
You don't have to walk
that slow.
-Right. Right.
-[gene] I liked it.
[tina]
also, this is our third day
of shooting,
And we already have
so much footage of you walking
And talking about your bow
and to your bow.
But she's so strong and pretty.
What? Oh, sorry.
She's strong and pretty
and thoughtful and funny.
Okay, maybe we get some shots
of you actually shooting?
Finally? Not to be pushy,
but let's definitely do that.
Okay, sure, but you've got
the videos I made, right?
The ones that everyone
on the internet loves?
Maybe you can just use those?
-Yeah, that's not gonna--
-also... [sighs]
My arm is feeling
kind of creaky today.
I, uh, hurt it
doing homework last night.
-I should probably cut that out.
-[linda] no.
Yep, yep, uh-huh, no problem,
just, uh...
We seem to be shooting
a documentary about an archer
And we have no archery shots.
Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool.
[gene]
maybe if I do a lot of zooms,
nobody will notice?
Like this: Whoa, whoa,
-Whoa, whoa.
-[banging on door]
[moans]
Oh, it's teddy.
Hi, teddy. It's locked.
We're closed, teddy.
Does he look weird to you?
-[moaning]
-[linda] not too much more weird
than usual.
Teddy, we're closed.
We're cleaning up.
[moaning]
[gene]
he's hangry.
[tina]
well, we can't film
with all this noise.
Should we tell him he has
to leave? He won't like it.
I don't know if he knows
there's other restaurants.
[tina]
what's wrong with him?
Should I shoot some of this
as b-roll?
We already got so much
of this guy eating earlier,
But I guess it's something.
Oh, hey, teddy.
I think they're closed.
Judging by the closed sign.
[chuckles]
-[teddy growls]
-[linda] oh, god!
-[screaming]
-[bob] teddy!
What are you doing?
Stop eating mort.
-He's never done that before,
has he?
-No.
I mean, he did growl at mort
that one time
-For sitting on his stool.
-[tina] oh, my god.
Is he undead? Is he a zombie?
Oh, no, more zombies!
It must be a zombie apocalypse!
[linda]
aw, nuts.
[gene]
ugh, and I'm wearing this?
[tina]
yeah, this could be
very not good for us.
But, I mean,
if it's gonna happen,
We're in the safest spot
we could be because we're with
One of the best archers
in the world.
[gene]
who? Oh, right, louise.
The one we're doing
the documentary about.
-[tina] yeah.
-Oh, yeah, we're so safe.
-Phew, am I right? [chuckles]
-[tina] yeah. [chuckles]
-So, so safe.
-Uh-huh.
Yep. Yep. Yep.
Should we cut the cameras?
Focus on surviving
this whole deal?
Cut the cameras? Are you crazy?
A zombie apocalypse is exactly
What this snoozer
of a doc needed.
Now we can get you shooting
all the zombies with arrows,
Saving our lives and stuff.
I mean, I'm sorry
that mort guy got eaten.
Sorry, mort guy. But, you know,
he's gonna be in a movie, so...
-Uh-huh. Gr-great.
-[gene] should I keep rolling?
Yes, keep rolling.
But don't get eaten.
But if you do get eaten,
you know, try to keep rolling.
-Safely.
-Sounds good.
Okay, fine, but we don't know
what's going on out there.
This might not even be zombies.
This could be, like,
rabies or something.
-Brains.
-[tina] pretty sure
he just said "brains."
Okay, so they're zombies.
Clearly, this is zombies.
-[linda] yep.
-[bob] yeah.
-Seems like it is.
Poor mort. Poor teddy.
Uh, might be poor us, too.
I'm feeling like this glass
is not zombie-proof.
[tina]
it's pretty thick, right?
-[moaning]
-[glass cracks]
-Oh, my god.
-[tina] sorry.
I guess not so thick.
-[pounding on glass]
-[gene] ooh, that beat's funky.
[gene beatboxing]
♪ dugga-dugga, dugga-dugga,
dugga-dugga-do... ♪
Go away, zombies.
Nobody wants you here.
What do we do?
Cover the windows?
Barricade ourselves in?
-What can we use?
-[linda] burgers?
-[all] what?
-Fine. Buns?
-Uh, tables?
-[tina] that's a great idea.
Right. Yes, uh, that's fine.
Uh, let's take apart the tables,
Because it's
a zombie apocalypse.
[louise] yeah, dad,
we're taking apart the tables.
[bob]
no, I know, I know.
I-I'm just, it's... It's a lot.
But, uh, okay, let's do it.
Too bad we can't hire teddy
to help us.
-Brains.
-What do you say, teddy,
-One last handyman job?
-Brains!
-Nope.
-We'll figure it out.
We'll use kitchen utensils
as tools?
[gene]
great idea.
♪ ♪
Brains!
[gene]
that seems like
enough barricading.
You don't want
to over-barricade.
I don't hear anything.
I think they left.
And if zombies do get in,
louise will protect us
With her amazing archery skills.
Yeah, but we really don't know
how to kill them yet.
Maybe they love
being shot by arrows.
Maybe it's like
a deep-tissue massage for them.
[tina]
oh, no, isn't there a back door?
Should we barricade that?
It's steel, a-and locked.
I checked it.
This is the only way in here.
And we do have food and water.
We should be okay. As long as
we don't have to open this up.
-[pounding on door]
-[rudy] open up! Open up!
-[bob] oh.
-Rudy?
-[andy/ollie] let us in!
[louise]
andy and ollie? Are you zombies?
-No! We're running from them!
-Ugh.
We just finished
boarding this up.
Tell them to run
to the back door.
-You there?
-[rudy] we're here!
-[louise] he's there.
-Wait, but what if
There are zombies eating him?
That's why I got the frying pan.
If there's zombies,
I'll pan 'em.
Why don't you show us on dad
what you're gonna do to them?
-I was gonna go like this.
-Ow.
-And then I was gonna
come down hard.
-Lin.
-What?
-Stop.
Everybody ready?
One, two, three.
-Thank you!
[tina]
any zombies out there?
[bob]
I don't see any.
All right,
let's lock this back up.
[moaning]
[tina]
holy crap. Who is that?
[andy]
that's our brother.
He wants to eat us.
-He's a zombie now.
-He sure is.
We're gonna be
dad's new favorites.
-Dad's dead.
-Oh, yeah.
[moaning]
-[tina] damn.
-[bob] uh, closing this.
-Uh-huh.
-[bob] tina.
-Mmm.
-Tina.
Okay, so, we're in
a zombie apocalypse situation.
And we're not sure
how to kill them.
Some of us say arrows.
Some of us are weirdly insistent
that it might not be arrows.
But I feel like
we should give it a shot,
So to speak. [chuckles]
I'm freaking out.
I don't want to die.
Or un-die. How long
do we have to stay here?
-What if we run out of food?
-We're in a restaurant, rudy.
My mom and dad are making
all of us burgers right now.
Oh. Hi.
-Hi.
-Okay, I'm cool.
I am the cool guy you do not
regret letting in. [chuckles]
-Great.
-Oh, my god, what's that smell?!
That's just the way
our restaurant smells.
Okay. That's fine. That's great.
I'm doing good.
[ollie]
my poor sweet andy.
-You got bit.
-Just a little.
Am I gonna turn into a zombie?
If you do,
promise to bite me first,
-And then we'll both be zombies.
-Ooh.
And if anyone asks
about the bite,
We'll just say
that you work in construction
And it's a hazard of the job.
-He works in construction!
-I work in construction!
-It's a hazard of the job!
-It's a real job that I have!
-[gene] okay, bros.
-[objects crashing]
[bob]
oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no.
[tina]
how did they break through that?
We did such good barricading.
[gene]
it's like the zombies
don't even appreciate
How long it took us
to do all that.
[linda]
kids, go to the basement!
There's some crap down there
that we can use
To reinforce this, I think.
There's, uh, an old mop
and, uh, a lot of toilet paper.
What are we gonna do
with toilet paper?
-I don't know.
-[gene] tp their houses?
I'll go.
Rudy, andy, ollie, come with me.
-[both] yay!
-[rudy] wow, you're excited.
-We like going places.
-I get it.
[tina]
gene, go with them.
Help, but keep filming.
Uh, but also, help.
Filming is helping.
Grab anything you can.
[strains]
[moaning]
Andy, what's wrong?
Is your zombie bite acting up?
Zombie bite?
Did you say "zombie bite"?
I said "construction site
injury." that's what I said.
-Uh, it sounded like you said
"zombie bite."
-I heard that, too.
-Well, that's ridiculous.
-I think it's happening!
[moaning]
[louise]
oh, crap.
-[gene screams]
-let's go, let's go, let's go!
-Uh-huh.
-[gene] yep, yep.
Brains!
Is that a-a fun nickname,
'cause you think I'm smart?
Brains!
Yep. Ow! I love you.
Ow! Love you. Ow! Not the ears.
[moaning]
[straining]
Okay, basement
is off-limits now.
We locked it, but yeah,
two small zombies in there.
So how's it going here?
-It's going really well.
-Yep.
Louise, do something,
with the pointy sticks
That you can shoot really fast
through the air.
That would be helpful.
Uh... [grunts]
-Salt?
-I don't know!
-Ow.
-Pepper?
-I don't know.
-Mustard?
Stop judging the things
we're throwing at zombies!
[wailing]
-[louise] ha!
-[tina] huh.
[rudy]
zombies don't like mustard.
Of course they don't. Who does?
[bob]
mustard is great.
Don't start
this argument again, louise.
-Agree to disagree.
-[linda] I hate to interrupt,
But I think you kids
should make a run for it.
Oh. Yeah. Uh, okay.
Uh, your mom and I are
gonna stay here and, uh,
Hold these guys off,
and we-we got this.
Uh, this is no problem, but
you should all go, really fast.
Well, what about my really cool
mustard breakthrough?
-Too many zombies.
-[gene] tmz.
[strains] but it was
a really good breakthrough.
Go! Maybe out the back door
and make a run for it!
Oh! The fire escape.
Back door, get on the dumpster,
Get to the ladder
of the fire escape somehow,
Lower it, get everybody up
and then pull it back up?
-[gene] can you write
all that down for us?
-What?
-Uh, no.
-Everyone, just go.
Go now. And, uh, we'll, uh,
we'll meet you up there.
-Okay, louise?
-Huh. Huh. Huh.
-Oh, boy.
-Sounds like a lot of climbing,
But all right.
Okay.
We'll see you guys up there.
-[bob] yep.
-Uh-huh.
-[tina] we have to go now!
-Okay.
[linda]
but if we're not up soon,
Don't go to bed too late,
and stay out of my room.
Hey, watch it!
[tina]
wait for me!
I'll climb up.
Someone else, come up
and get on my shoulders.
Do you know how to lower
the ladder?
[louise]
of course I do. Do you know
How many fires we've had
in our house?
-A lot.
-[gene] good for you?
Maybe hurry? Just to try that?
-Get on my back.
-[grunting]
-Uh, hurry, hurry.
-[gene] yes, please.
[louise]
going as fast as we can.
-Yep. Mm-hmm. Yep.
-[louise grunts]
-Okay, I'm up.
-Climb up here.
-Ladder?
-[louise] watch out.
Thanks for the heads-up,
right after it happened.
-[strains]
-[louise] quick, quick, quick!
-Come on, gene.
-[rudy] oh, boy.
-[whimpering]
-[shouts]
-They got me!
-[tina] louise, shoot him!
-Shoot me? Why?
-Not you! The zombie!
[tina]
louise, shoot the zombie
with your bow and arrow!
Oh, yeah, I'd be into that.
Uh, uh... [straining]
-I can't do it.
-[tina] what are you
talking about?
I'm a fraud.
I'm an archery fraud.
-[tina/gene] what?
-I can't pull the string back.
I'm not strong enough.
I can't do archery at all.
[rudy]
I didn't catch all that.
Zombies are getting
kind of loud,
But are you gonna
shoot the arrow soon?
Now's good for me.
-[wailing]
-I'm sorry.
I'm a fraudy fraud pants.
I can't do any archery stuff.
Okay, now I heard
"I can't do archery stuff."
That's disappointing.
[tina]
give me that arrow.
[grunting]
-Here.
-I don't know if it works
without the bow part.
Use it like a spear
or something. I don't know.
Okay. [grunts]
[shouts] brains!
He doesn't seem to mind
that I did that to him.
Isn't that a thing?
Getting them in the head?
He's shaking his head no.
[shouts]
-Uh...
-[louise] rudy!
-I'm so sorry.
-[rudy] ow!
It's fine. Ow! It's my fault
for being the slowpoke.
Ow! It's actually not that bad.
-[gene] really?
-I mean, it's pretty bad.
But I don't want to be
remembered as a complainer.
[screaming]
[gene]
at least he went peacefully?
[tina]
[grunts] why didn't you just
Tell us the truth, louise?
[louise]
I was embarrassed, okay?
It's embarrassing. I mean,
I'm really bad at archery.
Like, I can't pull
the string back
And I haven't been able
to do it even once.
So you just made
a bunch of fake videos?
I was gonna make real videos,
but that didn't work out.
Because of the whole
"being terrible at it" thing.
There was a lot of editing,
come to think of it.
One time, I did sort of see
a hand moving the arrow
-Through the air.
-Yeah.
But, hey, it turns out arrows
don't kill zombies anyway,
So what are you gonna do?
I guess we're safe up here.
For now?
-[sighs]
-[distant moaning]
[quietly]
she seems pretty sad.
Yeah, probably because
she let everybody die.
♪ I'm a fraud ♪
[tina]
wait, what's happening?
♪ I'm a phony ♪
Are you singing
in a documentary?
-♪ I'm a sham, a scam ♪
-[gene beatboxing]
♪ yes, ma'am,
and I'm full of baloney ♪
Okay, now gene seems to be
laying down a beat.
♪ but if you could see
who I had hoped to be ♪
♪ the me that's me
more perfectly ♪
♪ why can't I be the me
I want to be? ♪
[tina]
okay, maybe we get back
-To watching out for--
-♪ and in this world... ♪
-Louise!
-Right. Right. Right.
-[sighs] focus.
-[gene] uh-oh.
They're climbing up
on the dumpster.
And now they're reaching
for the ladder!
[both moaning]
They might be figuring out
how to give each other a boost.
-[tina] what? How?
-They're doing this thing.
For, like, here's the church,
here's the steeple,
Open the doors,
look at all the people?
Don't make this about religion.
Well, I mean, we know
one thing they don't like.
-Paying taxes?
-Mustard.
But you know who does?
My parents.
Spicy, yuck. Honey, yuck.
Yellow, yuck.
So many half-empty jars
of mustard.
[gene]
they're coming up fast!
Might've been too long
on how you don't like
Each individual jar of mustard.
Sorry. Here, take these.
-Squirt it on them!
-[gene screams]
-[moaning]
-[louise] ha!
How does that cut
the mustard, you punk?
-We condi-meant to do that.
-[gene] nice.
[grunts]
uh, we need to fall back.
We need higher ground.
[gene]
you mean the stevie wonder song?
Do we even have a cd player?
We need higher
mustard-squirting ground.
[tina]
where is higher
mustard-squirting ground?
Follow me! Up there.
Can we lock the door?
I would've been able
to lock the door
If my parents hadn't made me
take the lock off.
You lock yourself in your room
to watch every season
Of american horror story
one time...
-[tina] oops, my mustard.
-Oh, no, one's getting in.
Okay, so we're not great
at barricading.
[gene]
we're barely-cading.
-[moaning]
-[tina] hello.
I mean,
I'm gonna squirt you now.
-[air sputters]
-that was the thing.
It wasn't me.
-[moans]
-it wasn't!
-[air sputtering]
-crap, crap, crap.
[gene]
uh, this isn't good.
[tina]
oh, god,
I don't want to get eaten.
I guess there are
worse ways to go.
No, this is probably the worst.
Ugh, I don't want to die!
-[tina] wow.
-[gene] you want to get
another one?
-That was a little breathy.
-Wow.
Never mind.
The first one was better.
Louise, you did it!
What did you-- how did--
I did it this way,
which I've never tried before.
-[tina] thank you.
-Sure.
If I let you get eaten,
Who was gonna finish
the documentary about me?
[gene]
I mean, I'm sure rudy and andy
And ollie and your parents
wished you figured out
That foot thing a little
earlier, but that's fine.
-[moaning]
-[louise] okay, sounds like
we've got more company.
Gene, you squirt mustard here.
-On your nice clean bedspread?
-It's not that clean.
Tina, you dip the arrows,
hand them to me,
And I kill the bastards.
Go, go, go, go.
By the way, how many mustard
arrows are we allowed to eat?
-None.
-Copy that.
[louise]
♪ she's good at archery now ♪
♪ she's good at archery now,
she's good at archery now ♪
♪ she's good at archery now ♪
♪ she's good at archery now,
she's good at archery now ♪
♪ she's good at archery now ♪
♪ she's good at archery now,
she's good at archery ♪
♪ 'cause she's using
her foot somehow. ♪
[tina panting]
[tina]
is that it? Are we safe?
I hope so, because, um,
I only have one arrow left.
[tina] and we're down to
the last of the mustard.
And some of us showed a lot of
restraint not eating any of it.
[bob and linda moaning]
[louise]
oh, no. It's my parents.
[gene]
they're still a cute couple.
[tina]
you only have one arrow!
How are you gonna
get two people?
Sorry, mom and dad. I love you,
but I got to do this.
♪ ♪
[gene]
any more zombies out there?
-It's okay if there's not.
-[tina] you saved us!
I mean, you had to kill
your zombie parents,
But you did
your famous trick shot.
"the off-the-wall flipparoo
how-do-you-do."
For real! And you saved us.
[gene] and we probably got
a clean shot of it.
-[objects crashing]
-uh-oh.
-There they are. Darn it.
-[zombies moaning]
Don't you guys have a hobby?
-[mort] brains.
-Oh, right, brains.
Shoot. Um, listen.
Stay hidden. Barricade the door.
Better than we did before.
I'm gonna draw them
away from here
And, I guess, go out fighting.
-[tina] wait, what?
-Don't argue.
-There's no time.
-I'll tell your story.
I mean, I won't,
'cause I'll probably be dead,
Um, but hopefully someone will?
Not gene, 'cause if I'm dead,
he'll probably be dead, too.
-[gene] yep.
-But, you know, someone else?
Someone who's great at editing
and senses
What my incredible vision
for telling this story was?
And hopefully isn't
into star wipes
-Or anything like that.
-Yeah, yeah, got it.
[moaning and screaming]
[camera thuds]
[moaning and screaming fade]
Wow, that was... Great.
Dark. Pretty dark.
Yeah, but so good.
-It's not done. Shh!
-What? I-I thought--
-[tina] gene?
-[gene] yeah?
-[tina] did you get bitten?
-No. Did you?
-[tina] no. Louise?
-[louise] [sighs] yeah?
-[tina] did they bite you?
-No. I think...
No. They stepped on me
a lot, though.
[tina] can you see if
my camera's still rolling?
Yep, looks like it.
-So did all the zombies
just leave?
-[louise] oh, my god.
It must be because
we have mustard all over us.
They didn't want to eat us
because of the mustard.
I don't have it all over me.
[tina] you have a little, um--
never mind.
Okay, new plan.
We go down to the restaurant.
We get some more mustard
and a few more arrows,
And, uh, [scoffs]
we save the world.
-[tina] we do?
-I have a thing to do later,
but okay.
[tina] hey, louise.
Do you like mustard now?
No. I'm with the zombies
on this one.
[gene] should we cover ourselves
with chicken satay
And see if
the zombies hate that, too?
What if we just get you
some chicken satay?
[gene]
mmm.
[upbeat keyboard music playing]
-Eh?
-Love it.
It's perfect.
I'm so proud of my little
Writer-director-producer-
stunt coordinators.
Sorry, we didn't go with
the "everyone dies" ending, dad.
Totally fine.
It's just a genre standard
And a political statement,
but I understand
You guys were probably
facing pressure
-From the studio.
-This guy.
You give him a role,
and all of a sudden
-He's giving notes.
-It's fine.
I love it.
Mustard didn't deserve
Any of that,
but I'm trying to overlook it.
I still don't quite get
why you didn't just
Make yourself good at archery
from the beginning, louise.
Well, that was the plan
at one time,
When I thought I was gonna be
really good at archery.
But turns out
I couldn't pull the string
Back far enough to make
an arrow go... Anywhere.
I remember that day.
A lot of grunts,
and then a lot of tears.
-Yeah.
But then,
we got the crew together,
And we had a meeting,
and we said
We could either scrap production
Or we could work this
into the story.
And then we thought
of the foot thing,
And then we knew
we had our ending.
Which by the way,
good for power,
Not good for accuracy.
The arrow goes everywhere.
Hey, you guys were good, too,
by the way.
-Yeah, we were.
-I still have mustard in my ear.
Or maybe that was from before.
Also, it was really nice of us
to take apart
The entire restaurant
for your barricade scene.
Uh, I didn't see any mention
of that in the credits,
But that-that-that's fine.
I think it's coming up
in the "special thanks."
-It just says "ken."
-oh, right.
Well, ken's sending this
to his agent, so...
Also, did you thank teddy,
mort, rudy, jimmy jr.,
Andy and ollie enough?
Because they worked really hard.
They're locked for the sequel.
That's where the money is.
And, oh, I'm so sorry
that they had to be
Part of a touching tale
of how you can feel like
A failure and then
overcome your weakness
With feet and determination.
And we're having
the cast and crew screening
Tomorrow at the restaurant?
With free burgers? Right, dad?
-[bob] wait, what?
-[gene] it's in your contract.
[upbeat keyboard music playing]
[teddy]
♪ brains ♪
♪ ♪
[tina] ♪ it must be
a zombie apocalypse! ♪
♪ ♪
[moaning]
[screaming]
Captioning sponsored by
bento box entertainment
And toyota.
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.Wgbh.Org